There has been a lot of talk about whether the British government will force
companies, such as WhatsApp, to make a back entrance into their encryption system,
So the police and government can read your messages, it should be necessary
At the time of the recording, they have not yet done so.
But laws that could let them do it in the future are already there.
And here is something you might not have thought I would say:
It sounds like a sensible idea.
The Basal
Back doors have been allowed for old-fashioned phone calls for decades.
They are called interceptions.
And if a criminal investigation has enough documentation for a warrant,
so they can look in your mail,
they can listen to your phone calls,
and they can intercept your text messages
It's called "wiretaps" in English, because the police many years ago
Literally would put a device into a physical telephone line.
So for anyone who grew up knowing this,
anyone who has grown up with computers like this,
just like just about every politician in the government,
Well, then it seems reasonable that there should also include - for example - WhatsApp.
So why not?
Well, first, let's look at the technical details.
It all depends on who holds the keys.
Modern encryption uses complicated mathematics
it is easy for a computer to calculate one way,
but almost impossible for it, the other way.
A really simple example:
If I ask you to multiply two prime numbers, like 13 × 17,
You can do this by just pressing a few keys on your calculator.
And because they were prime numbers,
We know this is the only way to get 221 by multiplying two whole numbers together.
except 221 times 1, and it's not quite useful.
But if I ask you, "Which two prime numbers should be multiplied to get 161?"
There is no way to find out quickly.
There are a few shortcuts you can take,
But it is still basically a brute-force approach.
Now imagine you're not trying to calculate for 161,
but instead something like this ...
you begin to see the scale of the problem.
And that's just a simple example,
Modern cryptography uses far more complicated one-way operations.
The important thing is that you can get a computer to do maths that are single-way,
but could take longer than the lifetime of the universe to brute-force back.
The result is that you can have two keys: two huge numbers.
One public, one private.
You send your public key to the world.
Anyone can encrypt a message with it;
the message is converted to what looks like random noise.
Even the same public key cannot convert it back.
But you can take the noise and use your private key
- and only your private key -
to decrypt it.
When you want to send a message back, you use their public key,
and they use their private key to decrypt it.
And the beautiful part of this: there is no need to exchange keys in advance,
You don't have to work out old-school disposable pads, or anything like that.
You can send your public key to the internet for anyone to see.
As long as you keep the private key secret,
no one else can read your messages.
It's a system that has been tested under incredibly harsh conditions for decades.
It works.
The chin knows it's really unfriendly to use.
It's hard enough to get someone to join a new bedding service as it is,
not to talk about getting their friends along.
Now you have to generate strange key hallucinations too?
And if you lose your phone or otherwise forget the key,
or your hard drive breaks down and you are without a backup,
are all your messages gone, lost as random noise forever.
E-mail that works this way has been around for decades
But it is too complicated and it is too unfriendly for most people.
The security was not worth the effort.
So instead, let web mail services,
along with Facebook, Twitter, and everyone else,
Don't worry about it.
Previously, they were mostly unencrypted,
but quickly realized that was a bad idea -
so now they use regular web encryption,
the padlock on your browser,
to make sure nobody on your network can see
your password or messages when they are underway
And that is the threat most people care about.
But they have the contents of the plain text messages,
or something close to it,
And these companies can give it back to you whenever you want.
Which means that when a government comes with a warrant,
companies can also provide the messages to them.
And that was fine, right?
This was reasonable.
This was an acceptable compromise between security and ease of use.
Or at least it was until it was revealed that - in short -
all major governments have a copy of virtually everything everyone has ever written;
at what time there were a few companies that decided that they actually
did not want to take the risk that anywhere - not even their own employees -
Even theoretically, should be able to access messages that people sent.
The result is WhatsApp, and iMessage, and the many smaller apps like them.
They have "end-to-end encryption".
Your phone automatically generates a public and private key for you.
It exchanges public keys behind the scenes,
while writing your first message to someone
and everything is encrypted.
And all of it automatically!
But WhatsApp and iMessage are not open source,
so hypothetically they could steal your private key too
or quietly issue a fake one to a person and sit in the middle listening,
But in practice people would notice.
There are certainly small loopholes that could work under special circumstances
But the odds are small and security experts are already
In the process of separating each and every edition of each messaging program, you go to it
just to see if anyone has put a back door into it.
Shortly said:
if any of these apps are served a warrant right now,
is the most they could say, how much two people have spoken,
and maybe roughly where they were:
But never what they were talking about.
More than that is literally, mathematically impossible.
But it is impossible only because of the way they have designed their systems.
And that's the vulnerability.
A government could make it a legal requirement for Apple and Facebook
that they should quietly add a back door in all their encryption
if they want to sell something in their country.
I have heard this wording as "banning mathematics",
but it is a bit like saying that
The ban on beating a stranger in the face is "to ban hands".
And if Apple and Facebook refuse to add a back door, a government could ...
... theoretically, they could ban their phones or ban their apps from sale,
or prosecute those responsible
or block Facebook, which owns WhatsApp,
or they could make ISPs block their services,
or they could ...
... in practice, they will pay fines to the company.
Apple and Facebook have local addresses,
They pay ... little treasure.
From the sidelines, I would love to see the British government
Go up to Apple and see who flashed first.
But companies have bowed to foreign countries many times before.
BlackBerry left the Indian government
Get full access to users' chat and web history back in 2013.
The only reason WhatsApp can't read your messages
is that they have deliberately chosen to design their systems that way.
They were just as popular without encryption:
it was a reflection,
They had been running for years before they turned on encryption.
This was a human decision,
not an inevitable fact of technology.
So why is an encryption backdoor such a bad idea?
Well, if there is a back door, it can and will be abused.
Local UK authorities have already used our monitoring laws,
- those who were made to stop terrorism,
to monitor loudly the doggie,
strike down illegal feeding of pigeons,
and spying on some parents to see if they actually lived near enough
to a particular school they wanted to get their children in.
Now is it useful for crime prevention?
Of course.
And there is the argument that
"If you have something to hide, you have nothing to fear":
Perhaps they should not have illegally fed these pigeons.
And yes, you see this, you probably have nothing to hide and nothing to fear
from the current government of your country.
But laws and governments are changing and, incidentally,
is the internet and the apps we use on our phones global.
If you allow a back door here,
you also allow another country's government to spy on its opponents,
and another to spy on people they suspect might be gay,
or using cannabis,
or who are Christians,
or depending on what is illegal in the country.
In fifty years,
you may be part of a country where eating meat has been banned,
and the government will want to come after you to track down
the illegal bacon ring your friends are a part of.
"Nothing to hide" only works if people are in power
Share your and everyone you celebrate values ​​wholeheartedly
and always want to.
To make matters worse: On the surface, this seems to be similar
for ordinary, old-fashioned phone tapping, but it's not:
depending on how the back door is set up,
A government may not just be able to get what someone has sent now.
They could get the whole message history.
Maybe years of messages back and forth
with hundreds or thousands of other people.
It's not just a look into what a person says:
It is an overwhelming look into many, many people's thoughts.
That's what long forgotten nude image someone sent five years ago.
It's the angry style they wrote in school and with which they now disagree completely.
It's not just "what do they say"
It is "what have they ever said".
It is all under the assumption that the back door is not being abused by people with more personal problems.
All it takes is one single employee,
in the government or by the message app,
And then we've got a huge amount of personal information leaked.
Either about the general public
or about concrete people who someone wants revenge on.
It dumps the "blunt-ex-test"
Can a person with an agenda
Use this to destroy a life?
A press survey found hundreds of cases
where police officers and civil servants in the US
searched for private information for personal reasons.
And let's not start off what would happen if a hacker,
or even another government's intelligence service,
got access to the back door.
Or how it would make it much more risky
to report abuse of government power, on any scale.
There is an argument that it would be worth it
That all the downsides would be a small price to pay
to Stop Very Rare Bad Things.
I disagree, but it is an opinion, not a fact.
But an encryption backdoor would not stop bad things from happening.
The problem of stopping terrorism right now is not a lack of information.
The Manchester bomber was reported to authorities five times,
including his own friends and family.
An anonymous source from within the UK security services
told Reuters that at any given time, 500 people are being investigated
and about 3,000 people "of interest".
For scale, just to reassure you,
it is only about 0.005% of the British population.
But the way to solve this is no more data
It's having enough police officers and security personnel
with enough time to do their jobs and investigate.
And let's be clear: everyone who wants secure communication for evil purposes
just wanted to use something else
Any of thousands of smaller services the government has not noticed yet
or that they could not possibly have jurisdiction over.
Or if even that is not an option,
they can come up with a code themselves,
just own jokes and references that no one else understands.
So when I say that an encryption back door sounds like a sensible idea,
I mean it.
It sounds reasonable.
Like a lot of ideas sound reasonable when you express them in one or two sentences.
But the devil is in the detail.
If we could copy the way interceptions worked,
limited in scope and time,
demanding a warrant and some physical effort,
and not the story of all that anyone ever said
and not available to repressive governments elsewhere in the world,
So surely, I would definitely be for it.
Making an encryption backdoor is not impossible:
But to build a sensible one is.
Thanks to everyone who helped with proofreading my script,
and to everyone here at Cambridge Center for Computing History,
who let me film with this wonderful old equipment.